Do it again. Hi, and welcome to part three of
lesson one. This is introducing your space
environment interactions design project for Space
5065.
The purpose of the project is to give you an opportunity to apply what you're
learning as you're going through the course,
and there will be two project milestones as well as a final
report. The total will be worth 40% of your
grade. Please document, like I talked about in part one
of lesson one, in accordance with AIAA
format.
This will be an individual assignment,
and
you will be likely going through an
iterative design process because you'll find that
subsystems are highly dependent on each other.
For example, if you have designed a solar power system
that provides 1,000 watts of energy, you will have
to dissipate that energy somehow,
or you will have an overheated spacecraft.
You have a choice of, I think it's eight, I should
have updated that, eight
satellite missions, and you
have a mission duration of five years and a
budget of $100 million. You'll need to define additional
requirements and
constraints based on your specific mission.
Here are some of your options. First, option
one, space tug and repair servicing satellite.
The United States needs a satellite system that will allow the docking of a
service satellite with a cooperative satellite.
Your servicing satellite will need to control the orientation and provide
food, fuel, food, same thing, for the
friendly satellite to continue its mission.
And this has kind of been done by Northrop Grumman with
its MEV 1 and 2 demo missions.
But
you will have to design your own space tug and repair
servicing satellite.
Number two is a CubeSat cooperative satellite system,
and we want to image something currently in orbit.
It could be the International Space Station.
It could be another country's satellite.
It could be a friendly satellite that we just need to
image to see if it's damaged.
And you will have a CubeSat
constellation, not just one satellite for this mission.
Space sweeper will be
cleaning up
debris from space.
It could be low Earth orbit. You could focus on geo,
graveyard, whatever you want to focus on.
Probably focusing on Leo, though, because that's
where most of the debris is,
and there are some examples out there.
I provided one here. Rainforest monitoring.
The EPA is interested in employing satellites to monitor the Earth's
rainforest, and deforestation
is a concern. You'll have to pick a sensor and
design it to survive the space environment.
And I might go back and state you will have to pick a
sensor or sensors to monitor that.
In-space multi-use resupply mission.
This might be a
platform
that sits at
in Geo or Leo or a Lagrange
point, for example, that will provide in-space servicing for a
satellite that needs repair or refueling.
Number six is the Global Wildlife Monitoring and Ecosystem Health
Network. NASA needs a satellite system that will create a real-time
global wildlife and ecosystem monitoring system
to combat biodiversity loss and monitor environmental
changes. So you will have to design
sensors that will monitor that and design them to survive
the space environment. A space domain awareness micro
constellation. Space Force is seeking satellite systems that
enhance national SDA. Design something to meet their
needs and make sure it survives the space environment.
And then the final choice this year will be Methanosat,
where we're going to monitor methane and other greenhouse gas
emissions on a global scale. So milestone one is due
the 3rd of July, and you will define your mission, its
objective, and begin determining the environment it will be subjected
to. First, you'll establish a name for your satellite
system and determine its mission objectives.
Remember, I only gave you two of those.
You'll have to derive the rest from whichever mission you are
assigned. Provide a summary of the Earth's sun
system, considering the risk and hazards.
You'll pick two orbits. You'll pick Geo, Mio, or Leo,
two out of the three of those, and quantify or characterize the different
emissions from the sun and how they affect Earth
observation missions or damaged spacecraft.
Next, you'll provide a summary of space weather, current research
efforts, or operational capabilities to measure space
weather. We haven't talked about that yet in this class and
will not be doing a lot, so you'll have to do a little bit of
research there.
And
be sure and throw in its effects on communication from either GEO, MEO,
or LEO. Remember two out of the three of those.
As such,
we have a limited budget, and one of the things
that your customer is concerned about trying to do is to
forego vacuum testing.
Is that advisable? Why would it be advisable?
Why would it not be advisable, et cetera?
Finally, choose an orbit for your satellite.
So it'll be, if you pick LEO, GEO, MEO, it'll be
one of those.
Number six, include a visual simulation of your satellite's orbit.
Many programs you can do. One is Systems Toolkit, which is available through
the IT office at UCCS.
FreeFlyer, there's many other modeling programs
you can find out there,
and most of them are free for academic use.
We do pay for the Systems Toolkit license, so that's why I
encourage that.
We may as well get the most value out of that.
And then predict how long your satellite will remain in
orbit without station keeping.
We probably will not have gotten to the neutral environment lesson by that.
We'll go through a detailed programming lesson on
that. But what I want you to do right now is to estimate how
long your satellite will remain in orbit without having to go
into a lot of detail. And then provide a report
summarizing your results. I provided some
references here for you, and I would like
you to provide, by next Thursday,
your top three choices of
missions you would like to work on.
I will also post that in the announcements
for the course, but I
would like to not have everyone pick the same mission,
so that's why I asked you for your top three choices.
I'll try to match you to your top one or two, but
just in case we get 10 of the wildlife,
we can spread those out. All right, so we'll see you next week.